		     ROPP_IO Package Release V7.0
		    ------------------------------

The ropp_io module is a package of software and supporting files for
manipulating Radio Occulation (RO) data to/from the ROPP format files.

ropp_io forms one module of the Radio Occultation Processing Package (ROPP)
which is a key deliverable of the ROM SAF. The IO (input/output) of all
its sample programs is based on this 'ROPP' data format. The format itself
is based on the platform-independent netCDF data transport file mechanism.

The ROPP format is essentially mission independant, so can store RO data
processed to Level 1 and/or Level 2 from GPS/Met, CHAMP, GRACE, COSMIC 
or whatever as well as from GRAS. The format was designed as an interface
between mission-dependent files and mission-independent application tools
(e.g. BUFR encoding), but could equally well be used for data exchange
NRT and offline) and for archiving.

The software provides a high-level, user-callable interface for reading and
writing RO data from/to netCDF files. The netCDF file type can contain
multiple RO profiles (a 'multifile'). Supporting routines are included to
define various composite RO data types, provide units conversions and
some string handling. The ropp_io module requires that the ropp_utils
module has been installed and it's library built.

An example application program 'ropp2ropp' is provided which will read any
supported ROPP file, generate a file name from the contents and write the
data to back to the latest ROPP specification. This tool can also combine
several single profiles into one multifile (in one session, or a later
append), split a multifile to single profiles or thin profile data.

There are also tools to encode the data in a ROPP file to BUFR ('ropp2bufr')
and to decode a BUFR file back to ROPP standard ('bufr2ropp') and to
convert GFZ text or UCAR netCDF files to ROPP netCDF ('gfz2ropp' and
'ucar2ropp', respectively). 

Tools are provided to extract background profiles in ascii format from 
gridded fields in GRIB file format ('grib2bgrasc') and to convert that ascii 
datafile to ROPP standard ('bgrasc2ropp'). 

There are also tools to read 'EUMETSAT'-style RO data in netCDF-4 format, and
output in ROPP standard ('eum2ropp') or BUFR standard ('eum2bufr').

Profile thinning is implemented as a user-callable subroutine and is
used by the ropp2ropp(1) and ropp2bufr(1) tools. Various thinning algoithms
are supported, and for those that use a fixed set of output levels, these
levels are user-definable via a simple plain-text control file. Several
sample control files are included in the ropp_io/ropp directory. These may
be manually copied to a suitable location and the file and path referenced
at run-time on the command line.

See the ROPP Release Notes html file provided with the main ROPP download
tarfile for an overview and instructions for installing this module with the
build and configure tools provided with ROPP.

See the README.unix and README.cygwin files for more detailed installation
instructions and tips for experienced developers. See file MANIFEST for the
complete list of files in the distribution package and the COPYRIGHT file for
copyright information. The file INSTALL contains generic instructions for the
configure script.
   
Any comments on this software should be given via the ROM SAF
Helpdesk at http://www.romsaf.org


ROM SAF ROPP Development Team
31 July 2013
